---
layout: post
title: Git Workflow
---
Titles: 
A thorough Git/GitHub workflow manual


Communication is Key: A Git/GitHub Workflow that drives team communication

Github as a communication tool

Oftentimes I become overhelmed by all the tools and methodologies that we as a team want to use in order to keep communication in the team going and everyone up to date. The times I do not become overhelmed I am probably either not using most of the tools actively or only doing tools and not coding. Even in an environment with very quick feedback cycles where you are working in sprints with a small team(Uhh so agile), it already becomes a lot of work to keep Trello, GitHub, HackPad and all these other awesome tools out there, that everyone wants to start using, in sync and therefore useful. 

I unfortunately do not have any data to back up the claims I am about to make nor by any means can I call myself an experienced developer so please take the following for what it is: My opinion formed from what I have experienced so far through the side-projects I built with different teams and my studies. Still or maybe especially because of that I hope that this post can be helpful for others like myself who are in a position where they are starting out a team project, are starting to work with git, and are undecided which kind of a workflow they should be picking and how they should be explaining it to their fellow team mates in order to help them thoroughly understand.

When you have many tools to track progress and document what everyone is doing you also have to keep these tools up to date. What I mean with up to date is that they should all be in the same state. Let me make an example. If you are using GitHub Issues to track enhancements and bugs, but you are tracking those also in Trello everytime someone fixes a bug either that person has to update both sources or someone has to have the job to keep both of them in sync. Both of those options are not very good in my opinion. In the first case I bet that someone will forget to do update both periodically. Therefore everyone in the team will have to look at both sources to see whats happening since they cannot be sure any more that both sources show the same state.

In case you want to get to the workflow section without further ado, please feel free to jump down a few paragraphs.




Communication is key! Cliché they were shouting. It is chliché indeed, but in my opinion communication is something different than what most people
